are you about to give your first speech
or maybe you've given a speech in the
past but it didn't go so well either way
I have you covered because in this video
I am going to break down the essential
tools you need to do a great job in your
next speech whether that's for a work
presentation for a wedding or even to
inspire an audience the first thing to
understand is the why of your speech
what is the purpose of the speech you
are giving and what is the ideal outcome
that you'd like it is very different
doing a business presentation than a
best man speech at a wedding so you need
to know what the purpose is and what
your goal is in terms of the outcome of
the speech the next step is building the
structure of the speech and I find in
business presentations that numbered
lists work very well for example you
could say here are the top five findings
from the q1 earnings call or perhaps
here are seven essential things you need
to do to take your social media presence
to the next level by having these
numbered lists it makes it easy for the
audience to retain and remember the
information but when it comes to more
personal speeches such as what you might
see at a wedding I find that you might
want to be a little bit more casual and
inject things like personal stories
personal stories are powerful because
often they include a level of humor and
people are more likely to remember that
information if it's coming from a
personal story and it's enjoyable to
listen to No matter what kind of speech
you're giving I want you to try to limit
your notes and I know that's hard
because many people want to write out
their speech verbatim every single word
and then stand in front of the audience
and read off of a piece of paper but the
reality is those speeches aren't very
very engaging and I'm going to touch on
that later in the video when I talk
about the importance of body language
and vocal variety but rather than
standing and staring at a piece of paper
I'd much rather you build speeches with
little text reminders of the next thing
you're going to be talking about so I'll
break this down for you in terms of a
wedding speech pretend you're giving a
wedding speech to the groom whose name
is Billy you could write out the intro
sentence fully so you have it as a
crutch but I don't want you to read that
sentence I want you to commit it to
memory and I want you to start off with
that powerful introduction Don't Panic
if you forget what it is you have it
written down but you will have practiced
enough so you don't need to read that
out the next thing you might have in
your notes is something that triggers
your memory such as tell the story about
Billy in fifth grade if this is a story
you're familiar you're with you've
probably told it to friends and family
many times before so now it's easy to
remember you've got your intro sentence
which is powerful which is going to hook
the audience and then a reminder to tell
a story that you're already familiar
with you don't need to write down all
the details of the story you've already
told this story before so it's simply a
prompt to remind you to bring up that
story next in your notes you could have
a couple of key words such as loyalty
patience
creativity maybe these are the three
attributes about Billy that you find
very admirable and these words will
remind you to give examples of why Billy
is a loyal person why he's a patient
person and why he has a level of
creativity underneath that you might
have a little sentence that says great
things about Sarah perhaps Billy is
marrying a woman named Sarah and you
want to say some kind words about her so
again you can have a few words that will
prompt your memory but rather than
standing there reading off of a piece of
paper you see that little prompt and it
reminds you what you've already
practiced what you're going to talk
about then you have your concluding
sentence written out verbatim again as a
crutch so that you remember exactly what
you're going to say but I want you to
commit the intro and the conclusion to
memory I know all the information
information I just gave you is a lot so
this point is perhaps the most important
thing I will say all video give yourself
enough time to practice practice is so
incredibly important when it comes to
public speaking because the reality is
when you stand in front of an audience
it is a terrifying thing many people
believe public speaking is one of the
greatest fears there is in life and
you're going to have enough to worry
about when you're St in front of an
audience you want the speech to feel as
natural as possible so I want you to
practice practice practice practice I
can't stress it enough because all of
these things that you're worried about
the structure body language vocal tone
these things will become easier the more
times you've gone through the speech the
more you've memorized what you want to
say and then you can focus about really
connecting with the audience and you're
not so worried about the content of the
speech because you have that dialed in
there are many ways to practice you can
record yourself giving the speech that
is one way you can ask a friend or a
family member who maybe you don't want
to spoil the excitement of the actual
day of speech but maybe they can give
you some feedback directly toward the
end of this video I'm going to give you
a couple extra ways that you can get an
extra practice but often I practice by
myself out loud in in rooms in my home
and my wife thinks I'm crazy sometimes
but this helps me visualize and prepare
for giving a speech I pretend that I can
see the audience out in the crowd and I
deliver the speech Just as I would on
the day of and often that practice has
gone a long way in helping me deliver a
great speech my next tip is to focus on
the beginning of your speech because
let's face it there are so many wedding
speeches out there that set the bar
really low they all start with hi
everyone for those who don't know me my
name is Wade Patterson and I am the best
man in this wedding so many speeches
start that way you have an opportunity
by just adding a Sprinkle of creativity
to instantly become a more memorable
speech than most of the speeches that
will be given at that wedding using the
Billy wedding example from earlier you
could start your speech with something
like this many people assume that Billy
and I have been lifelong friends but the
truth is there was a brief moment in
time in fifth grade where we were Archen
enemies that type of introduction
catches the audience's attention you've
hooked them the audience is wondering
wait a second I thought Wade and Billy
were great friends what happened in
fifth grade there's a story here there's
something interesting that's coming and
I want to to pay attention but powerful
openings don't have to be limited to
wedding speeches you can have a powerful
opening with an inspirational speech or
even a business presentation one example
of this I recently gave a talk at my own
work and I open the speech by asking the
question are we a modern brand and then
I stood there and I watched the audience
and you could see the wheels turning in
their heads they started to think about
the question I had asked and
really H put some thought behind are we
are we a modern brand then in my speech
I outlined data and consumer research we
had done that outlined how consumers
feel about the advertisements and the
marketing we have out in the marketplace
to finish my speech I concluded by again
reiterating the data that we had and
then proving the point of are we a
modern brand yeah we are according to
this consumer data consumers find our
brand to be incredibly modern that
unique approach to the speech really
grasped the business audience and they
weren't expecting that they were
expecting your typical business
presentation with slideshows with too
much text on the screen but instead I
was able to add a little bit of
creativity and the message resonated on
a deeper level one of the most important
tips for new speakers for beginners who
want to take on public speaking is
dealing with nerves Stress and Anxiety
is incredibly normal and can be expected
when public speaking I mentioned earlier
public speaking is one of the greatest
fears that anybody has in some surveys
they say it's bigger than the fear of
death which is absolutely insane to
think about but you can expect that you
will have at least some level of nerves
before you give a speech and you should
if you think about it when you give a
presentation to an audience there are
many people giving their valuable
attention to you these might be
successful business people these might
be parents whatever or whomever is in
the audience their time is valuable
therefore there's a lot of pressure on
you as the speaker to provide them with
value to make them think hey that was
time well spent and that pressure can be
all consumed for some people but there's
a few ways you can really help deal with
the nerves one is what I already
mentioned and that is practicing the
more you practice speaking I promise you
the anxiety will reduce because it
becomes a more natural part of your
process especially if you are part of a
club like Toast Masters Toast Masters
encourages you to practice on a regular
basis in front of a group of people and
this can help reduce your fear another
thing that's really powerful is
injecting humor into your speech when
you are on stage and you make the
audience laugh and you hear that
laughter it is the most relaxing and
powerful thing because you know the
audience is enjoying themselves in that
moment and that laughter almost adds to
the high of public speaking because it
goes from being something scary to being
something in incredibly enjoyable
because now not only are you not wasting
people's time you're actually you have
the proof that they're enjoying seeing
you on stage and that you are giving
them something extra try to use humor
whether it's a business presentation or
especially if it's a speech at a wedding
which people expect will have some level
of humor anyways it's going to help
relax your audience and it's going to
relax you as the speaker a couple other
things you can do to help with the
nerves try to go to the front of the
stage before anyone's there and I know
that might sound a little bit strange if
you're at a wedding if you get to the
reception early before some of the other
tables just take a moment and stand near
the front where you're going to be
giving your speech nobody needs to know
what you're doing but just look out and
see the tables and start to think
through and visualize yourself giving
the speech that way when you are
actually called up to go and give the
speech you've already stood in that
place you've already started the
visualization process and it's going to
reduce a little bit of stress the next
thing is to bring a glass of water with
you I can't tell you how many times
speakers are caught off guard because
their mouths get very dry and all of a
sudden they can hear themselves with
that sticking of the mouth as they open
their mouth to speak and that is
something that you want to be proactive
with therefore if you have water on the
stage nobody will find it odd if between
sentences you take a quick sip it will
look completely normal but I drink a ton
of water before my speech and even
during the speech as well it really
helps me and it eliminates that dry
mouth issue the next thing you can do is
focus on your breathing or maybe even
Implement some meditation for myself box
breathing has worked worked really well
so breathing in inhaling for 4 seconds
then holding my breath for 4 seconds
then exhaling for 4 seconds and holding
for 4 seconds and you think of it as
this 4 second box where you do each of
those activities it helps to calm
yourself down to relax to control your
breathing and doing little things like
that I have personally found go a long
way in reducing my nerves so now that
that your nerves are as settled as
possible you're invited up to deliver
this presentation whether it be a
business presentation an inspirational
speech or perhaps a humorous or
entertaining wedding speech you want to
incorporate body language and vocal tone
and variety and the reason you want to
do this is that there are these three
magical numbers that represent
communication those numbers are 55 38
and 7 and each of these represents the
percentage breakdown of how a message is
communicated so the 55 represents 55%
being body language the 38 that
represents the vocal tone and variety
and only 7% of a message has to do with
the actual words we speak which is
powerful because if we do the math
that's 93% of communication has to do
with body language and vocal tone and
variety the example I always give I
could say the same words in two
different ways and they mean completely
different things as an example I am so
excited to be here today to be shooting
this video I love producing this YouTube
content for you I'm so excited to be
putting this video together another
YouTube video woohoo um I love doing
this video content more than anything in
the world it's awesome essentially in
those two messages the the words were
very similar but they had two completely
different meanings the first one I was
genuine you knew that I actually enjoyed
creating this video content in the
second you could see that there was a
level of sarcasm that I wasn't as
serious about it and that is why body
language is so important if you are
stood reading words off of a sheet of
paper your vocal tone is going to be
monotone and you are limited to do body
language because your hands are tied up
your eyes are focused instead you want
those notes if any because ideally you
won't have notes but if you do have
notes you want to set them to the side
those are your crutch if you need to use
them and otherwise you can use your
hands you can look you can make eye
contact with all of the people in the
audience that is going to draw them in
and using that body language is going to
help them connect to your message on a
deeper level if you're using slides keep
them simple one of the biggest mistakes
I see with slideshow presentations is
people have too many words on the slides
and often the words are in much too
small a font to actually read for people
with poor eyesight like myself try to
limit those words maybe three or four
words per slide or better yet only
pictures or maybe even just videos but
something behind that is a visual and
what is great is that that this can
almost act as a way of notes for
yourself if you have a PowerPoint
presentation and you have images that
are representing what you're talking
about by seeing or glancing at the next
slide it will trigger your memory of
what you're supposed to talk about
without you reading any notes so as an
example maybe that fifth grade story I
wanted to talk about Billy if I was
using slideshow for this maybe it's a
photo of Billy in fifth grade myself and
Billy fifth grade Pals and I see that
image boom I'm automatically triggered
to talk about my friendship or when I
was enemies with Billy back in fifth
grade an image can help trigger our
memory the other mistake I see people
make when they have PowerPoint
presentations is that they continually
look back at their slide while they're
talking if it's being projected behind
them and my tip in this situation is to
have another laptop in front of you
perhaps on a table that is mirroring
what the slides are showing behind you
that way as you're talking to your
audience you can quickly look down and
you can see exactly what they're seeing
and you're not turning your back to them
as you're giving your presentation my
final public speaking tip for beginners
is to have a memorable closing for
business presentations off often this
can be done with the recap especially if
you used a numbered list in the example
of the top five findings from the
quarterly earnings call you could do a
quick recap in summary here are the five
things we need to remember 1 2 3 4 5 you
list out all of those and you cap it off
that way but a very powerful way one of
my favorite ways to end any speech and
this can work for business speeches or
personal speeches is is to make the
speech come full circle what I mean by
that using the example I used earlier
the business presentation I gave I
opened the speech by saying are we a
modern brand I then filled the speech by
giving consumer data and information
that pointed toward the direction of yes
we are a very modern brand so to
conclude I asked the same question are
we a modern brand given all of the
information we have at this point in
time the answer is a resounding yes and
that is how I Clos my speech and I can
tell you that if you include this type
of creativity in a business presentation
your colleagues are probably going to
take notice because most speeches
especially when it comes to professional
or business they're sort of cookie
cutter and they're predictable and
they're usually data heavy and not
creative or interesting so if you can
catch the audience's attention you
really really have an opportunity to
engage them in a powerful way and this
can go for personal speeches as well or
inspirational speeches giving the Billy
wedding example I started that off by
saying everyone assumed Billy and I have
been the best of friends throughout our
entire lives but there was a brief stint
in fifth grade where Billy and I were
Arch enemies then I go through this
speech probably telling a great story
about fifth grade talking about why
Billy and I are such great friends
perhaps mentioning Billy's partner whom
he's about to marry and then at the end
I could Circle back so even though Billy
and I had a brief moment of being
enemies our friendship has endured and
will continue to endure over the years
or something like that that way the
audience feels as though this was all
planned from the beginning you took them
on a journey but you had the destination
sorted out and that was right back at
the start just how you open the speech
you wrapped it up you tied a bow on it
and it's a beautiful way to close out
any speech I hope these videos gave you
some great ideas to take on your first
speech or to do even better on your next
speech than you've done in the past let
me know in the comment section what was
helpful what has your experience been
with speaking if this is your first time
landing on one of my videos please
consider subscribing to my channel it's
my goal to help make you a better public
speaker a more impactful Communicator
turn on those notifications so you never
miss a video and thank you so much for
taking the time to watch this video I'll
catch you on the next one